guides: Add challenges page (#314)
unikraft/docs: content/guides/challenges.mdx

---

> title: Challenges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Hackathon Challenges
```

> description: "Description of hackathon challenges."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Listing of hackathon challenges, together with awarded points"
```

---

> ## Challenges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Hacakthon Challenges
```

> You've made it so far.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You've been part of a Unikraft hackathon and you've made it so far.
```

Now the time has come to show the Unikraft world what you are really made of.
A true Dragon Slayer!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've prepared challenges that you will pass through to prove your worthiness.
Each challenge will get you points of valor, dubbed **HP** (_hackathon points_), that will be collected in the hackathon scoreboard.
```

> See the items added in the [`Hackathons` project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the items added in the [`Hackathons` GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).
```

You will get the number of points for submitting an issue or a solution that works.

> Those points will be doubled if the PR is accepted upstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Solutions are submitted as pull requests.
If a pull request is accepted upstream, you get double points.
```

After solving one challenge, pick another one.
We recommend you start small then move up to more difficult challenges.

Please check the community guidelines on [submitting changes](https://github.com/unikraft/docs/blob/2ff2de59b4032fb6ebefc05c24ef832adacf7768/content/en/docs/contributing/submitting-changes.md) and [the review process](https://github.com/unikraft/docs/blob/2ff2de59b4032fb6ebefc05c24ef832adacf7768/content/en/docs/contributing/review-process.md).

### Challenge Types

Challenge types generally fall into the categories below.

> You can go beyond the items marked in the [`Hackathons` project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can go beyond the items marked in the [`Hackathons` GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).
```

> 1. **Submitting issues**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Submit issues**
```

>    Test as many applications as you can, with different configuration options (e.g. different architectures, different filesystems, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Test as many [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) as you can, with different configuration options (e.g. different architectures, different filesystems, etc.).
   Use both [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit) and the Make-based system for building, and KraftKit and `qemu-system` for running.
```

   Submit any issue you bump into.

>    5 hackathon points are awarded for each submitted issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   5 HP are awarded for each submitted issue.
```

> 1. **Building applications as dynamic PIE binaries** and adding them to the [`dynamic-apps` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Build or extract applications as dynamic PIE binaries** and add them to the [`dynamic-apps` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps)
```

>    These applications aren't required to run on Unikraft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

   You need to submit a directory, representing the root filesystem of the application, consisting of:
   
   - the application binary ELF
   - required application dynamic libraries (shared objects)
   - application-specific configuration, data or runtime files
   - a `README.md` detailing how the application is to be built, configured and run on Linux and on Unikraft;
     as an example, see the `README.md` for [Python](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps/tree/master/lang/python)

   These applications aren't required to run on Unikraft.
```

>    If something doesn't work submit an issue and get points for that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If something doesn't work submit an issue and get HP for that.
```

>    30-50 hackathon points are awarded for each submitted application, depending on its complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   30-50 HP are awarded for each submitted application, depending on its complexity.
```

> 1. **Fixing build warning messages**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Fix build warning messages**
```

   5-10 hackathon points are awarded for each fix.

> 1. **Updating library versions** (and making sure the new version builds and runs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Update library versions** (and making sure the new version builds and runs)

   Unikraft uses multiple [external libraries](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-library+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) that are required by [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) to run.
   These libraries are developed outside Unikraft by other open source communities.
   Periodically, we want to update the versions used by Unikraft, to benefit from most recent features.
   
   Steps are:
   
   1. Choose an [external library repository](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-library+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories).
   1. Choose the upstream version you want to use, probably the most recent one.
   1. Update the build, configuration and source code files inside it to the  updated version.
   1. Test with all Unikraft applications using that library.
   1. Submit changes as a pull request in the library repository.
   1. Get HP.
```

>    20-30 hackathon points are usually awarded for the boost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   20-30 HP are usually awarded for the boost.
```

> 1. **Fixing issues**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Fix issues**

   Look for issues in the [core `unikraft` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/) or [any other repository in the `unikraft` GitHub organization](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/repositories).
   Select an issue that intrigues you;
   it's good to first ask for feedback from the hackathon mentors, to ensure it's feasible to be solved during the hackathon.
   Proceed to work on the issue.
   Once solved, test it as much as possible.
   Submit solution as pull request and get HP.
```

>    Hackathon points will be awarded according to the complexity of the fix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   HP will be awarded according to the complexity of the fix.
```

---
title: Hackathon Challenges
description: "Listing of hackathon challenges, together with awarded points"
---

## Hackathon Challenges

You've been part of a Unikraft hackathon and you've made it so far.
Now the time has come to show the Unikraft world what you are really made of.
A true Dragon Slayer!

> We've prepared challenges that you will pass through to prove your worthiness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've prepared quite a number of challenges for you.
Prove your worthiness by passing them and, in doing so, adding your name to the list of hero contributors to the Unikraft project.
```

> Each challenge will get you points of valor, dubbed **HP** (_hackathon points_), that will be collected in the hackathon scoreboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each challenge will get you points of valor, dubbed **HP** (_hackathon points_), that will be collected in the hackathon scoreboard of valor.
```

See the items added in the [`Hackathons` GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).

You will get the number of points for submitting an issue or a solution that works.
Solutions are submitted as pull requests.

> If a pull request is accepted upstream, you get double points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a pull request is accepted upstream, you get double HP.
```

After solving one challenge, pick another one.

> We recommend you start small then move up to more difficult challenges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend you start small, then move up to more difficult challenges.
```

Please check the community guidelines on [submitting changes](https://github.com/unikraft/docs/blob/2ff2de59b4032fb6ebefc05c24ef832adacf7768/content/en/docs/contributing/submitting-changes.md) and [the review process](https://github.com/unikraft/docs/blob/2ff2de59b4032fb6ebefc05c24ef832adacf7768/content/en/docs/contributing/review-process.md).

### Challenge Types

> Challenge types generally fall into the categories below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Challenges generally fall into the categories below.
```

> You can go beyond the items marked in the [`Hackathons` GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can venture beyond the challenges in the [`Hackathons` GitHub project](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/projects/29).
```

1. **Submit issues**

>    Test as many [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) as you can, with different configuration options (e.g. different architectures, different filesystems, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Test as many [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) as you can, with different configuration options (i.e. different architectures, different filesystems, etc.).
```

>    Use both [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit) and the Make-based system for building, and KraftKit and `qemu-system` for running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use both [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit) and the Make-based system for building, and boh KraftKit and `qemu-system` for running.
```

   Submit any issue you bump into.

   5 HP are awarded for each submitted issue.

1. **Build or extract applications as dynamic PIE binaries** and add them to the [`dynamic-apps` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps)

   You need to submit a directory, representing the root filesystem of the application, consisting of:

   - the application binary ELF
   - required application dynamic libraries (shared objects)
   - application-specific configuration, data or runtime files
   - a `README.md` detailing how the application is to be built, configured and run on Linux and on Unikraft;
    as an example, see the `README.md` for [Python](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps/tree/master/lang/python)

>    These applications aren't required to run on Unikraft.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   These applications aren't required to run on Unikraft in order to do a submission and get HP.
```

   If something doesn't work submit an issue and get HP for that.

   30-50 HP are awarded for each submitted application, depending on its complexity.

> 1. **Fix build warning messages**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Fix build warning messages**

    Use different build environments (different operating systems, different compilers), different targets (different platforms, different architectures) and different configuration options (different filesystems, different library support, debugging options) to configure and build [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories).
    If there are build warnings, create a fix and submit a pull request.
```

   5-10 HP are awarded for each fix.

> 1. **Update library versions** (and making sure the new version builds and runs)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Update library versions** (and make sure the new version builds and runs)
```

   Unikraft uses multiple [external libraries](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-library+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) that are required by [Unikraft applications](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-application+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories) to run.
   These libraries are developed outside Unikraft by other open source communities.
   Periodically, we want to update the versions used by Unikraft, to benefit from most recent features.

   Steps are:

   1. Choose an [external library repository](https://github.com/search?q=topic%3Aunikraft-library+org%3Aunikraft&type=Repositories).
   1. Choose the upstream version you want to use, probably the most recent one.

>    1. Update the build, configuration and source code files inside it to the  updated version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. Update the build, configuration and source code files inside it to the updated version.
```

   1. Test with all Unikraft applications using that library.
   1. Submit changes as a pull request in the library repository.
   1. Get HP.

>    20-30 HP are usually awarded for the boost.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   20-30 HP are usually awarded for each library update.
```

> 1. **Fixing issues**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Fix issues**
```

   Look for issues in the [core `unikraft` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/unikraft/) or [any other repository in the `unikraft` GitHub organization](https://github.com/orgs/unikraft/repositories).
   Select an issue that intrigues you;

>    it's good to first ask for feedback from the hackathon mentors, to ensure it's feasible to be solved during the hackathon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   it's good to first ask for feedback from the hackathon mentors, to ensure it's feasible to solve the issue during the hackathon.
```

   Proceed to work on the issue.
   Once solved, test it as much as possible.

>    Submit solution as pull request and get HP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Submit solution as a pull request and get HP.
```

   Use both [KraftKit](https://github.com/unikraft/kraftkit) and the Make-based system for building, and both KraftKit and `qemu-system` for running.
   Submit any issue you bump into.

   5 HP are awarded for each submitted issue.

1. **Build or extract applications as dynamic PIE binaries** and add them to the [`dynamic-apps` repository](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps)

   You need to submit a directory, representing the root filesystem of the application, consisting of:

   - the application binary ELF
   - required application dynamic libraries (shared objects)
   - application-specific configuration, data or runtime files
   - a `README.md` detailing how the application is to be built, configured and run on Linux and on Unikraft;
    as an example, see the `README.md` for [Python](https://github.com/unikraft/dynamic-apps/tree/master/lang/python)

   These applications aren't required to run on Unikraft in order to do a submission and get HP.

>    If something doesn't work submit an issue and get HP for that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If something doesn't work, submit an issue and get HP for that.
```
